## Autonomous Vehicle Overtaking Using MPC and CFTOC
We provide a robust solution to high-speed overtaking for autonomous vehicles using Model Predictive Control and Optimization. Finite-time optimization is used to generate a smooth and feasible “overtaking” trajectory around the obstacle vehicle. Model Predictive Control (MPC) is then used to control a dynamic vehicle model along the previously generated reference trajectory. The cost functions and constraints are designed such that the ego vehicle maintains a safe distance from the leading vehicle, stays within the two-lane workspace, and follows a smooth/natural trajectory. Moreover, the control method allows reliable overtaking maneuvers over a variety of initial conditions (velocities, distances, and lane widths).


### CFTOC Trajectory Generator

The `cftoc_trajectory_generator.ipynb` file uses finite-time optimization to generate a smooth and feasible reference trajectory around the leading obstacle vehicle. This trajectory generator uses the `Pyomo` package for optimization and does not consider a vehicle model; rather, this algorithm applies environment, obstacle, and state constraints to generate an overtaking path around a leading vehicle.  

### MPC Vehicle Controller

 The reference trajectory (x, y, v, θ ) generated by `cftoc_trajectory_generator.ipynb` then feeds into the MPC path following algorithm in the `mpc_vehicle_controller.ipynb` file. Specifically, this vehicle controller generates control inputs to accurately guide a vehicle model along the reference trajectory and around the leading vehicle. This algorithm uses model predictive control and assumes the kinematic bicycle model for vehicle dynamics.

### Contributors

A technical research paper highlighting the control strategy (cost functions, constraints, vehicle dynamics model, etc.) is presented in the `autonomous_overtaking_results.pdf` file. Note that this paper and code has been written collaborativelycby Sanam Nagvekar, Sumanth Kandala, Om Prabhu, Khoa Nguyen, and Nathaniel Leong. Furthermore, the programs are generated using `Google Colab` and requires software libraries such as `pyomo` and `ipopt` for optimization.  
